# Home

Oirginal source code visits [DOS](https://github.com/WWmore/DOS). 
It contains the implementation associated with the paper ["Discrete Orthogonal Structures"](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cag.2023.05.024). Please cite the paper if you use this code in your project.

ArchGeo is a Python library for processing manifold and orientable meshes based on half-edge data structures.
It provides not only a GUI to visualize the 3D models, including point cloud, curves, surfaces, meshes and vector field, but also an optimization framework to solve geometry processing problems. 
ArchGeo is a powerful tool to do interactive design.

Afterall, ArchGeo offers four core features:
* Visualizing any point cloud, curves, surfaces, meshes and vector field;
* Geometrically processing any manifold and orientable mesh;
* Solving geometric optimization problems;
* Fast interactive design.

## Triangular meshes
Triangular meshes are the most commonly uses meshes in geometry processing. Each face is planar. **Regular** triangular mesh has all the vertices of valence 6.

## Why quad meshes?
Quad meshes are extensively used in animation, architectural designs, and industrial analysis.
They are also majorly discussed objects with fruitful discrete theories in Discrete Differential Geometry (DDG).

Each vertex of a **regular** quad mesh has valence 4.

Compared with triangular meshes, quad meshes have the following good features:
* (usually) small number of valence at vertex star, which leads to less supporting weight in structural application
* can have torsion-free structure
* have nice geometry theory in discretization of (smooth) differential geometry

## Architectural geometry

Architectural geometry research area can go back to the research paper **Geometric modeling with conical meshes and developable surfaces** [1] in 2006 by Prof.Helmut Pottmann et.al. 
Then an **Architectural geometry** [2] book was released in 2007.
Every year after that, high quality research papers in this area were presented in top conferences and journals. Also many follow-up application papers appeared.

In 2015, a survey paper **Architectural geometry** [3] presented a fruitful achievements of this research area and also listed some promising research directions.





